---
title: "How I got into software development"
description: "From writing my first line to code to my first developer job."
date: "2020-06-16"
---

## The early years

I've always been fascinated by technology, ever since I got my first game console I was addicted to gaming. I was maybe in the 3rd or 4th grade that I got to use a computer for the first time. Mostly for educational purposes but it was still cool to have that experience at that age, had no idea how they worked just knew that I could play games on them. 😅

## The first steps

Fast forward to high school, a friend and I were playing RuneScape one evening and we started talking about how bad the botting situation had gotten in the game. At the time there were two big botting communities, powerbot and rsbots.net. Powerbot was a free bot (with premium scripts that you could buy) that most people used and could be set up relatively easy. Rsbots had 95% of their scripts paid with a few very slimmed down versions that could be used to try out the platform. I was too scared to try either because I didn't want to run a random program on my computer because it could have ended up being a virus (powerbot did end up getting compromised one year making it the largest hacking scandal in the botting community ever, [More about that here](https://rsplayers.fandom.com/wiki/Gh0st). My friend on the other hand decided to give Rsbots a try and it turned out they were legit. He gained so many levels and a ton of in-game gold from using their bots without getting banned and I was honestly surprised, and a little jealous. As a high school student I didn't have much money and definitely no way to buy things online but I wanted to catch up in levels so I decided to take a look at powerbot. Getting set up wasn't a problem and I was able to start botting in a matter of minutes but a lot of the free scripts were really bad. Some would break after encountering a random event or just crash after a few hours. After getting frustrated over broken scripts for a few hours I decided that I'd try making my own bots, this is where I wrote my first lines of code.

Powerbot was written entirely in Java and so were the scripts. I had no idea what a programming language was or where to start learning Java. Luckily there were a few guides on the site about writing scripts for powerbot. I don't remember what the steps for getting the development environment setup were but I knew it included installing eclipse. After about 30 mins of reading and copying code I had made a powermining script. I didn't learn much nor did the script do much but I thought it was cool to be able to make my own script. I wanted to learn more and started looking for free online sources about Java and started to be more active in the botting community. Over the course of my whole botting journey I made about 4 scripts, none of them were very advanced but they were all an improvement over the last one. Eventually I got bored of the whole botting thing but still liked programming. I dabbled in making RuneScape private servers which again required Java but didn't do much on that front. On and off I'd make small programs here and there and even took two programming classes in my senior years of high school. Still liked programming but didn't know where to go next after learning the basics. Programming sat on the back burner after high school for a few years while I focused on other stuff.

## Finding my way

Going to do another time jump. Went to college for IT, got my diploma, was still interested in programming. A couple years after college and working odd jobs here and there I decided that I wanted to pickup programming again but actually stick to it this time. I started googling around for languages that are easy for beginners to learn and I kept seeing the same result, python. Python itself looked really easy and seemed very straightforward at the time so I thought how hard could it be? I started with codecademy as that was something that came up a lot in my google searches. Codecademy did a good job with teaching the basics and I was able to start writing simple things on my own within a couple of days. Now, back to what I struggled with before, what do I make for practice? I had just built a new computer around this time and I needed new wallpapers. I used to frequent 4chan around that time (yes, I know) and they they had a board for specifically wallpapers which is where I used to get mine from. I hated having to manually click one image at a time and save it on my computer, then it hit me. I figured I could probably automate the process with python! I did a ton of research beforehand about things like scraping web pages and interacting with the operating system using python. Essentially, that was all I needed so I got right down to business. Getting the program to ask where to save the images and asking for user input was the easy part, I needed a way to look for only images on the thread and to save all of the images in that thread to the disk. That part took me FOREVER. I realized I needed a regular expression to parse the links related to images and my god did I hate having to figure that out. Eventually I did get it to work and my program worked like a charm. I was SO happy and wanted to continue learning from there so I continued making small but useful programs in python. The link to the image downloader can be found [here](https://github.com/Danex2/gimme-that/blob/master/gimme-that.py), it was around the time I started uploading things to github too.

## Planning my path to become a software developer

I started to really pick up steam in 2018, I was in my 2nd year of working part-time at UPS at the time but I wanted a change. I started laying out a path of things I needed to learn in order to get a job. Around this time was when I decided to pursue web development as I started learning JavaScript along side python. I started with HTML and CSS making simple webpages then moved on to JavaScript very soon after (I feel I should have spent more time with HTML and CSS because I suck at both even today. ;-;). I also started checking out job descriptions and looking at what type of skills employers wanted, a lot of them said React and JavaScript so that's where a lot of my focus went. I didn't really feel like I learned a lot from the codecademy JavaScript track so I decided to start doing FreeCodeCamp to learn everything I could about web development. I got past the HTML and CSS sections but got stuck in the JavaScript algorithm section because I couldn't solve a lot of them. Rather than letting that stop me I kept pushing forward, I bought a course on React and watched all of it. Still had no clue about how things like `this` worked or classes which the course mentioned a lot but managed to finish and learn a bit about React and SASS. Somehow I was able to [make my own application using the twitch API](https://github.com/Danex2/twitchy) without knowing how React worked but it functioned which I was proud of. I also slapped together 2 more very terrible React applications to slap on my resume and began applying for jobs. My JavaScript knowledge was still in the toilet and I was still very new to a lot of things in web development but I thought I'd give it a try anyways. After a few months of no callbacks (heh) and failed interviews I figured I should stop for a bit and go back to fill in the gaps in my knowledge.

I started with HTML, went back and learned about using the proper tags for certain content and about semantic HTML (I'm still not good with this pls help). Moved on to CSS and learned about things like responsive web design, CSS specifity as well as learning more about SASS. Then came JavaScript, where I was tested the most in interviews so I spent the most time learning the ins and outs of this language. I went all the way back to the beginning, starting with variables and the difference between var, let and const to things like promises and the latest features in the JavaScript language. After that complete overhaul I felt really prepared to tackle interviews. Still I was getting no calls back but I made sure to study each and every day as well as continue making new projects to keep myself in good shape. The applying and failed interviews continued for the rest of 2018 and all of 2019 but I didn't let that stop me from continuing to learn and trying because I new I'd eventually land something.

## We made it

Near the end of 2019 I decided to take a break from applying and just focus solely on making fun projects which helped with my mental health. As soon as 2020 started though I updated my resume once again to include new things I had learned as well as new projects. About 3 months into applying i finally got an e-mail back from a place I applied to and they had sent a coding challenge for me to complete. It was fairly easy, just setting up a project with webpack and using SASS to style the webpage. My SASS and HTML could have been a lot cleaner but it got me into the interview so all that was left was for me to nail the interview. I had already been through the process many times before so I wasn't really nervous going into it. The questions were fairly standard and I'm pretty sure I got them all right and we walked through my coding challenge to see what I could have done better and what I did right. I did infact end up getting the job which is where I am today. It's an intern position but it's something to get my foot in the door. At the time of writing this I am in my third month of my internship and honestly it's been pretty alright. I'm learning a lot about what it is to work on a team as well as writing better and readable code. Some things I feel I need to get better at are asking for help way sooner, making notes when someone is explaining something to me and being more vocal in team meetings. All in all though its been a pretty positive experience.

## What's next

For the remainder of 2020 I want to continue learning and catching up on what's going on in the web dev world. I'm still making projects on my off days and researching a ton of new stuff. Recently I've been putting a lot of work into NextJS and learning about that. I've also made a project with GraphQL and started learning Golang. I'm not sure where I'll go after this internship but I do know I want to continue making cool things using code.
